PR 8 — Null Safety: Overview, Nullable Value Types, Null Operators (#53509)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/fundamentals/null-safety/index.md

---
title: "Null safety in C#"
description: Learn how C# helps you write null-safe code using nullable value types, nullable reference types, and null operators.
ms.date: 04/30/2026
ms.topic: overview
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# C# null safety

> [!TIP]
> This article is part of the **Fundamentals** section for developers who already know at least one programming language and are learning C#. If you're new to programming, start with the [Get started](../../tour-of-csharp/tutorials/index.md) tutorials first.
>
> **Coming from Java or C++?** C# provides compile-time null safety through nullable reference types. The goal is similar to Java's `@NonNull` annotations but enforced by the compiler. C# also has dedicated operators like `?.` and `??` that make null-safe expressions concise.

`null` represents the absence of a value. When you try to access a member on a `null` reference, by calling a method or reading a property, the runtime throws a <xref:System.NullReferenceException>:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/null-safety-overview/Program.cs" ID="NullReferenceDemo":::

C# gives you three complementary tools to write null-safe code:

> - **Nullable value types**: let a value type like `int` or `bool` also hold `null`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Nullable value types**: let a value type such as `int` or `bool` also hold `null`
```
Minor item: Since examples are listed here rather than a comparison of items, "such as" works better than "like" I think.

- **Nullable reference types**: let the compiler track whether a reference might be `null`
- **Null operators**: express null-safe access and fallback logic concisely

## Nullable value types

> Value types like `int`, `double`, and `bool` can't hold `null` by default. Add `?` to the type name to create a *nullable value type* that holds either a value or `null`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Value types such as `int`, `double`, and `bool` can't hold `null` by default. Add `?` to the type name to create a *nullable value type* that holds either a value or `null`:
```
Minor item.  List rather than comparison, so "such as" might work better.
